When I was there, one of the first things I was asked
to do was look at the regulations in regard to their
agreement with federal regulations. And I took
one look at it and I said, hey guys, we're in
violation. And they said, well, what do you
recommend we do? And I said, I recommend one of two
things. One is you can initiate procedures which
will probably trigger the review they told us that
they were ultimately going to get around to. and
they'll say we have to change it or two you can go
downstairs and tell the city council and their
attitude is the hell with it or three you can ignore
it well we ignored it for about six months to eight
months and the review finally got around and they
told us that if we did not modify our ordinances to
conform they are going to uh no this is a fia flip
insurance administration but
that if we did not perform, they would suspend all
FDIC institutions from loaning any money for
development and purchases of property inside the
city of Galveston. Well, you know, that kind of
excites everybody because there's lots of money
there. And the outcome was we finally got an
ordinance adopted after a lot of screaming and
yelling. I had a very good ordinance drafted, but
it was too long and complex for the politicals to
put up with, so they threw it out and adopted a short
four-page type ordinance that was much more
restrictive. Now, the reason it was was because
politically it looked better to have a short
four-page typed ordinance that people could read
and understand instead of having one that was much
more specific about what you could do if you could
do the following things to protect the system,
which got to be about 25, 30 pages long. specifying
wiring, ventilation systems, and all kinds of
things. So the outcome was they adopted that
ordinance and they had periodically given
exemptions, which are complete violations of the
federal regs, to industrial and commercial
facilities.
I'm going to have to run it a little bit. Right. How
would you characterize the planning style at
Galveston as, for example, would it be considered
basically kind of oriented toward a general
comprehensive plan, sort of synoptic? concept of
planning, a holistic approach, or would it be
incremental planning, opportunism, would it be
advocacy planning, would it be radical planning,
structural changes in government, for example,
caused by any... I think in general what I saw in
Galveston was that there was too much weight there
to try certain things. There was a very real sense
of pragmatism. Can we get this done? Can we get it
through? Should we spend time on it at this stage?
There was a lot of advocacy planning that was going
on and that would get hot and people would stop
being advocates and become bureaucrats or
technocrats again for a while. There was a lot of
arm twisting, political interaction. There was,
I think, some commitment to comprehensive
planning, and the plan was being basically used as
the document from which a lot of these proposals
for action would occur. You know, street
closures, park development, linear parks, In
other words, the plan became kind of a basis of
ideas for which practical advocate kinds of
activities occurred. I think there was that
commitment. Now, on the other hand, you kind of
look at it and there were some things that happened
that maybe didn't relate that closely to the plan,
but I think there was general consensus that okay
the plan is in many cases abstract or vague enough
we don't understand what that means but here's an
opportunity let's grab it and federal money was
viewed as an opportunity and we'll take it we'll
find a way to make it fit within the community and
the plan very good kevin thank you very much for all
of your help on this and if we have any follow-up